# DNA-Cryptography
DNA Cryptography can be defined as a hiding data in terms of DNA Sequence. DNA cryptography is one of the rapid emerging technology which works on concepts of DNA computing. A new technique for securing data was introduced using the biological structure of DNA called DNA Computing (aka  molecular computing or biological computing). DNA can be used to store and transmit data. The concept of using DNA computing in the fields of cryptography and steganography has been identified as a possible technology that may bring forward a new hope for unbreakable algorithms. Strands of DNA are long polymers of millions of linked nucleotides. These nucleotides consist of one of four nitrogen bases, a five carbon sugar and a phosphate group. The nucleotides that make up these polymers are named after the nitrogen base that it consists of; Adenine (A), Cytosine (C), Guanine (G) and Thymine (T).
Advantages of DNA computing
•	Speed – Conventional computers can perform approximately 100 MIPS (millions of instruction per second). Combining DNA strands as demonstrated by Adleman, made computations equivalent to 10^9 or better, arguably over 100 times faster than the fastest computer.
•	Minimal Storage Requirements – DNA stores memory at a density of about 1 bit per cubic nanometer where conventional storage media requires 10^12 cubic nanometers to store 1 bit.
•	Minimal Power Requirements – There is no power required for DNA computing while the computation is taking place. The chemical bonds that are the building blocks of DNA happen without any outside power source. There is no comparison to the power requirements of conventional computers.

Cryptographic technique in which each letter of the alphabet is converted into a different combination of the four bases that, make up the human deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA).
